Name: Jahan Kuruvilla Cherian
UID: 104436427
Email: jcherian@ucla.edu
Professor: Eggert
TA: Lauren Samy
File - hw.txt - Answers to the two questions according to the specification.

1.) If we are sending data over the network using ssh, the data is safe from
anyone snooping, since the messages will first be encrypted through an 
authentication process using the receiver's public key which a snooper will
be able to see, but can only be decrypted by the receivers private key which is
not available over the network. The data after the authentication stage will be
encrypted using a session key the server and client agree on based on the
public/private key used for the authentication. Since the other team wouldn't
have been able to decrypt the authentication stage, they won't be able to
decrypt the session, and so the data remains secure.

If however, the other team had access to the keyboard taps made during the
authentication stage, then the data would no longer be secure as they would
have access to the passphrase acting as the authentication private key and so
they would be able to decrypt all the data during the session as well as they
would be able to generate a session key from the passphrase they got from the
keyboard taps. The only way to prevent such an attack would be to make sure
the keyboard you're using prior to authentication with the server is itself
secure.

If the other team had prior access to the USB used to boot the environment up,
then the exchange is once again not secure as they could have made themselves
the root of the bootable environment which will give them all access to the 
.ssh folders set up in the servers, from which they gain access to all the
public and private keys used to set up authentication and session keys, and
so could decrypt and encrypt messages between you and the server at their own
will.

2.) gpg --verify does not really verify the original owner/sender of the
file as all it does is compare the cleartext signature once decrypted to the 
decrypted data using a public key. This is easy to intercept and change as
illustrated in the following example. Let us assume we have 2 users that wish
to exchange information. John is the creator of the file, and Sara is the 
receiver of the file. Omar is the man in the middle who wishes to intercept
the file and change its content. John signs the data and uses some hash
function to encrypt the data and begins to send the data. Omar intercepts the
file, and begins to change the data. He then signs it himself, and along with
sending the data, he sends his public key instead of John's to Sara. In this 
scenario, gpg --verify will simply use this public key to decrypt the data
and compare it to the signature, which will in this case reveal Omar as the
sender of the file. In no way has it maintained and verified who the original 
author of the data was.
A solution to such a problem which is widely used nowadays is to trust in 
well organized third party company/organization that keeps a track of the 
origin point of the file with its Author. This way - as long as have trust in
this third party organization - the verification will always be correct.
